Lilliana Robinson: It's very great info. So I'm sure a lot of people are gonna want to watch it back. Okay, guys. So we have Susan silver here. I'm so excited. Susan is one of our top mentors. For years she's always been part of mentor madness and last cohort. When we came out to the bay.
Lilliana Robinson: I was realizing that a lot of the founders were having messaging issues with their companies that they could learn a lot from. So I thought of Susan, and we reached out, and she gave a phenomenal workshop that helped the founders so much. I for I didn't follow up with you, Susan, to let you know, but they really appreciated it. So when we had you guys this time, we've talked to some of you who could benefit from the same message, and honestly, all of you can.
Lilliana Robinson: because this is some great knowledge. So this is an expert in marketing and all of this stuff that she's about to talk about.
Lilliana Robinson: We're very casual here, is it? Okay? If they unmute to ask questions, Susan.
Susan Silver: So happy I can make this expand to fit time. I can shrink it to fit time. You'll all get the share deck, but questions are my most favorite thing, and I promise I'll try to make the answers as broadly applicable as I can.
Lilliana Robinson: Amazing. Okay, cool. Well, I'll just turn the time over to you so we can maximize it. But thank you so much for being here. We really.
Susan Silver: Of course, absolutely like so happy to be here. And guys just for you, like in a nutshell my background. Just so you know where I'm coming from.
Susan Silver: I got an Mba. At Kellogg, here in Chicago. I spent 10 years in brand management at Kraft Foods. What that means is that I ran really big businesses. The biggest pnl I was responsible for was about 300 million dollars.
Susan Silver: So I think about marketing as a tool to help you drive to your business objectives. I'm not foofy. I'm not fun.
Susan Silver: I just. I want to help you guys get your act together and be as efficient and effective as you can to as they as you use marketing to kind of help you achieve whatever your current business objectives are.
Susan Silver: But
Susan Silver: I founded my own company 18 years ago. I'm June first. It'll be 18 years which still blows my mind. But I'm still eating, and it's not cat food. So things are good.
Susan Silver: I found it. Logentum. I'm I run a marketing strategy consulting firm. I have chosen not to scale. I can go into that in detail. But I will not. I'm very happy solo cause I love to do the work with my clients, and I don't love doing biz dev or managing people. So
Susan Silver: I I work with typically growth stage mid market companies from a paying clientele standpoint. I have been working with entrepreneurs ever since I found it. Argentum 1871. Tech stars here in Chicago University of Chicago, boost schools, new venture challenge, global adventure, challenge, etc, etc. So I have judged and help write dozens of pitches. If not, I don't know if I'm at 100
Susan Silver: So I'm gonna gauge this today to entrepreneurs. You'll notice that I do use a lot of food examples. It's because everybody eats, and I don't have to explain to you what a pizza is, you know, that. And we can just talk about the messaging however, I have worked with hundreds of companies in the last 18 years, and about 60% of my clients are B to B,
Susan Silver: and only about 25% are food across B to C and B to B, I have worked with a variety of technology startups, including Matterport, who, you may know, a bay area startup. They had, I think, 70 million in series C. They went public through a spac.
Susan Silver: So intra. So if you have questions about specific kinds of examples, please let me know.
Susan Silver: And without further ado. I'm going to share my screen.
Susan Silver: Okay? So today, I'm going to talk with you guys about positioning, which is really kind of the foundation for all messaging.
Susan Silver: It's something I'm super passionate about. I've been helping all kinds of businesses do this for many years. And I did get the chance to take a look at the air table with the descriptions of your businesses, and I understand that some of you have pivoted since that information was put up, and I know that you've been doing a lot of work if your if your pitch day is coming up.
Susan Silver: But the the the tools I'm going to talk to you about today
Susan Silver: hopefully will help you make whatever you've been saying about your business better because positioning is all about, how do you compete in the marketplace. Okay, how do you get people? What can you say to get people to buy you instead of your competitor? And even if you don't think you have competitors. You do. So.
Susan Silver: I'm gonna start with kind of your brain
Susan Silver: and and and and human brains, because so much of marketing is about kind of human brains. Since positioning is the foundation for all messaging. I wanna talk to you about human brains and how they respond to messaging. And Chloe, if you get any questions in the in the chat, if you'll just let me know so why do I have a heisman trophy here?
Susan Silver: Because this is your brain on messaging your brain
Susan Silver: does not want to hear it. Nobody's brain wants to hear it. We are bombarded with hundreds and hundreds of messages every day, and your brain's job to anthropomorphize your brain's job is to conserve your energy, to conserve its energy so that you'll have brain energy left to make really important decisions, like, if you're on your bike and a car suddenly, like flies in front of you, that you can like have the presence of mind to kind of figure out which way to go, how
Susan Silver: how quickly to stop, whatever it is! So your brain is constantly trying to conserve energy. The problem is that making any kind of decision
Susan Silver: uses brain energy. We all know the story of Steve Jobs wearing the same outfit every day. That was so that he could conserve brain energy. He didn't want to waste precious brain energy on deciding what to wear.
Susan Silver: So
Susan Silver: the people you're trying to reach with your message. Don't want to hear your message. Maybe.
Susan Silver: So. What I'm gonna talk to you about today is how to get them to care to hear your message all right. So I'm gonna see if I can see this screen bigger, or to see all of you.
Susan Silver: the best example that I can think of, for your brain on messaging is when you're looking at a stack of resumes.
Susan Silver: How many of you have ever had to go through a bunch of resumes.
Susan Silver: You can just raise your hands. I can see you.
valeria brenner: I think art can attest to this.
Susan Silver: That's right. Yes, yes, that would be yeah. I was looking at that business.
Lilliana Robinson: Club, wreck.
Susan Silver: Yes.
Susan Silver: yeah. So you know that first hand. But but so a lot of you have looked at a pilot. Resume is what is the second best thing
Susan Silver: about the task of looking through a pile of resumes. If the best thing is finding somebody who's super qualified, who you're excited about, what's the second best thing?
Lisa Hennessy (she/her), Travaras: Being done.
Susan Silver: Yes, but even better, Lisa making the no pile.
Lisa Hennessy (she/her), Travaras: Yeah.
Susan Silver: Right making. The no pile is awesome, and that's your brain on messaging. Okay? Cause what happens when you put something in the no pile.
valeria brenner: You don't have to look at it again.
Susan Silver: Exactly. Exactly. You never have to look at it again if you put someone in the yes pile you're signing up for a whole bunch of work. You've gotta get interviews scheduled. You've gotta bring them in. You've gotta coordinate with the team. You may have to talk to references. You're gonna have to negotiate and offer all that crap
Susan Silver: goes away if you put them in the no pile.
Susan Silver: So that's your brain on messaging. Okay, your brain. Anybody's brain just wants to say no.
Susan Silver: when, when, when we're confronted with a message.
Susan Silver: So our job is like, how do we make that message like of a very. Yes, resume. How do we get your message so that someone goes? Oh.
Susan Silver: that is for me. Okay. If the if the heisman Dude is going, not for me, not for me, not for me.
Susan Silver: How do you get someone to stop and say, Oh, maybe that is for me. Okay. So the whole thing that I'm going to talk to you about today is how to walk in your potential customer shoes
Susan Silver: so that you can do messaging. That makes them stop and say, Oh.
Susan Silver: I think you are talking to me about something that I care to listen to.
Susan Silver: All right. So that's that's the whole point of today, Chloe, we have 90 min, or we have an hour.
Chloe Lannert: 90 min.
Susan Silver: Okay, cool. Thank you. Then I'll talk more slowly. So
Susan Silver: when I say value proposition, it is the same thing as positioning.
Susan Silver: All right. I have yet to hear. In my 18, actually, in my many years of doing marketing, anybody kind of be able to give me a definition of value. Prop, that's different than positioning.
Susan Silver: So if we're going to have this super compelling message
Susan Silver: that get someone to want to buy your product or service.
Susan Silver: what are there? There are only 5 things you need to know just 5 small things that are the key components of any compelling marketing message.
Susan Silver: What are those things.
valeria brenner: It'd be like, what problem they're facing.
Susan Silver: Yes, I will, and thank you, Valeria. I will call that unmet need. What's the need they have? What's the need? They know they have
Susan Silver: other things you need to tell them for them to know that you're great, why they should buy you
Susan Silver: things you always make sure to include in your elevator pitch.
Lisa Hennessy (she/her), Travaras: How is this gonna make my life better?
Susan Silver: Yes, although.
Lisa Hennessy (she/her), Travaras: Me, I guess.
Susan Silver: Sorry.
Lisa Hennessy (she/her), Travaras: So what's in it for me? Question, I guess.
Susan Silver: Yes, definitely. And, Lisa, I would lump that into unmet need as well.
valeria brenner: How why, us like? Why would my business be the solution for you?
Susan Silver: I'm gonna call that point of difference.
Susan Silver: Yes, we got 2
Susan Silver: other thoughts.
Susan Silver: something that you're always careful to make sure you say in an elevator pitch.
Susan Silver: What are you.
Lisa Hennessy (she/her), Travaras: Problem.
Susan Silver: I'm sorry.
Lisa Hennessy (she/her), Travaras: How we're solving a problem.
Susan Silver: yes, I'll call that reasons to believe. Okay, I'm going to stop tormenting, you guys for right now.
Susan Silver: Especially. No, no valuable prizes. So first of all, who is your target?
Susan Silver: Okay, you must know who your target is. And we're gonna talk a lot about that. It's really important and a lot of times for young companies. It's a hard one, because sometimes you want everybody to be your target, because when you narrow down your target. You're taking money off the table. And I'm going to go into all of these in more detail. Okay? Then, like, we talked about unmet need. What is the unmet need your target knows they have.
Susan Silver: which is different than the unmet need you wish they would have, because it would make your job much easier. What are you which I call competitive set? What's your point of difference? And what are the reasons to believe that? Okay, so with these
Susan Silver: core 5 things
Susan Silver: you can do very effective compelling, messaging.
Susan Silver: some of the other things you can do with positioning. If you ever work with a creative agency, a graphic designer, a writer
Susan Silver: bringing on even onboarding new employees, being able to give them your your value proposition being able to show them your positioning statement helps everybody be on the same page, really fast. So this is a classic tool. It actually looks like this in my world, which is kind of like a mad lip. It's to the target with the unmet need. Your company is the competitive set that has a point of difference, because 3 reasons to believe that's it.
Susan Silver: Easy, peasy. I can tell you that when I do this exercise with my clients it typically takes about 4 h.
Susan Silver: because the hard part
Susan Silver: is not
Susan Silver: filling in the blanks.
Susan Silver: The hard part is that you have lots of choices.
Susan Silver: So when I used to work with Booth students and do this workshop with Booth students, I when I so when I started I would hand out this template and have them fill it in.
Susan Silver: and then, of course, they'd all be like. Oh, I know the answer, and they would just fill it in right away, right like, you guys are probably already sitting here looking at this thinking? Oh, I know the answer. I'm just gonna fill it in.
Susan Silver: But what you might not be thinking about is all the different choices you have for what could go into these, into these spaces, and I certainly noticed, in even in reading your very brief business description, that some of you had a whole lot of, and and even in, I think, what was supposed to be a one liner.
Susan Silver: So when my clients and I do this together.
Susan Silver: what we do is we talk about all the choices. We have, all the things that this could be, and then we decide on the best combination. So I like to use old fashion flip charts because I like to see everything around the room while we're going.
Susan Silver: Also, before I do this work with clients.
Susan Silver: I typically do customer interviews if we have customers right. And I know that some of you may not be at that stage yet. But I like to interview people, not for statistical significance, not so that we can say, Oh.
Susan Silver: we need to do this because this is what people are telling us to more. I do the interviews to bring other voices into the room when my client team is doing the positioning with me. Okay? So it's just kind of getting other. It's really about other ideas, other hypotheses. Are there anything we're missing that could go into our list? It's not about
Susan Silver: what are people telling us, and therefore we should decide this. It's much more about. We'll take as many ideas as we can.
Susan Silver: Then we need to choose the best combination.
Susan Silver: So
Susan Silver: I am
Susan Silver: going to. Sorry. I'm like flipping back and forth between making all. So I can see all of you. And then looking at my slide. So I'm going to give you a bunch of examples along the way.
Susan Silver: This one is mighty vine. Most of you have not heard of mighty vine, which is fine. I'm gonna show you through their positioning. Why, you haven't. Okay, basically. They are a a tomato growing company. An agriculture company that grows in greenhouses.
Susan Silver: And they only ship within a 300 mile radius of Chicago, of of their greenhouses. But I think this is a useful example, because they were
Susan Silver: definitely early stage when I started working with them.
Susan Silver: So their target was midwestern women, 30 to 55 who buy fresh tomatoes once a week.
Susan Silver: Now.
Susan Silver: this may seem like a kind of classic consumer products food target. But I can tell you that mighty vine didn't have a ton of resources, and we had no idea who was buying their tomatoes.
Susan Silver: But I'll let you in on a secret. What we did know was the only place that mighty vine was being sold. Excuse me, was in whole foods in the Midwest.
Susan Silver: So what I did was I Googled?
Susan Silver: Who is the whole Foods target?
Susan Silver: Turns out the whole foods target is women 30 to 55.
Susan Silver: Okay. So we knew as a Midwestern company that it needed to be midwestern women, 30 to 55, and also being a tomato company, we knew that the best customers for us were people who bought fresh tomatoes at least once a week.
Susan Silver: So that's how we, without knowing much about our real consumer, base ourselves. That's how we used other kind of data triangulation to figure out who our target should be. And and remember, this is a stake in the ground right? Especially when you're starting out. It's a stake in the ground. It's your best guess for who you think is gonna be most appropriate for for your product or service.
Susan Silver: The unmet need.
Susan Silver: Why the whole company was founded is because, pardon my French
Susan Silver: tomatoes in the Midwest in winter time. Suck.
Susan Silver: Okay? And for people who love eating tomatoes, winter is a very sad time. If you live in Chicago, because winter tomatoes don't taste good. So mighty vine saw an unmet need. Wouldn't it be great if
Susan Silver: we could grow a tomato that tasted like a summertime tomato in the minor in the middle of winter.
Susan Silver: So that's why the company was founded. And you'll notice today when we start talking in more detail about the positioning and how it works. I'm gonna start with unmet need. Because you guys are so close to the idea of why you founded your company. Okay? So we're gonna start there. So mighty vine is the local greenhouse tomato grower
Susan Silver: that grows delicious tomatoes year round, and you can see where that might seem like it's complete. Bs, sure they grow delicious tomatoes year round. Not possible. I don't believe you, and that's where the reasons to believe come in. And for mighty vine. The 3 reasons to believe were that the kinds of tomatoes they grew.
Susan Silver: They had selected those
Susan Silver: for flavor for being as flavorful as possible, and not for being shippable, which is why, if you live outside of the 300 mile radius of their Chicago greenhouse, you've never tried a mighty mind tomato. Okay? So they made that decision upfront. We're only going to be. We're going to be a local product.
Susan Silver: That meant that they could have their tomatoes be in stores within 2 days of being fully ripened on the vine.
Susan Silver: and then for them they were lucky enough and good enough. That well known Chicago area chefs like Rick Bayliss, who you guys may have heard of with frontier grill. Rick Bayliss used our tomatoes year round.
Susan Silver: and then you're kind of like, wow! That must be a pretty good tomato if all those things are true. Okay, so that's how we looked at all the things that were great about mighty vine, and this is where we netted out in terms of the best, most compelling message that we could
Susan Silver: use to talk about mighty buying tomatoes, and why you should buy them
Susan Silver: questions before I move on the
Susan Silver: any questions. Yet.
Chloe Lannert: So far so good. Looks like.
Susan Silver: Sorry Chloe.
Chloe Lannert: Looks like so far, so good.
Susan Silver: Okay. Okay.
Malc: Sorry. I just have one quick one. Can I chime in? I'm just curious, since maybe it's a bit of a an abstract question, did mighty Vine get permission through those business choices to tell this marketing, or did the marketing shape? For example, I'm curious around the local greenhouse story. I think that's really nice. But did they do that? And then, therefore they have permission. Talk about it, or should you
Malc: like talk about and then do it. I'm just curious, from a reason to believe standpoint, how that works.
Susan Silver: Which I'm sorry. Which part are you wondering if they got permission for.
Malc: I'm specifically thinking about the local greenhouse, that business decision. And and I'm curious if they did that first, and then they want to talk about it, or like, I'm just curious around the strategy behind that messaging where they got permission to do that.
Susan Silver: So from a business model standpoint.
Susan Silver: they made the decision that they were going to be a local provider of year round tomatoes to the Chicago area.
Susan Silver: What they had hoped to do over time was as they got better at kind of farming under glass
Susan Silver: to go to other areas of the country.
Susan Silver: and and kind of be able to be the local greenhouse tomato grower in multiple locations like Minneapolis. I don't know Idaho. Wherever wherever you can't get good tomatoes year round. It's pretty capital, intensive. And
Susan Silver: the Dutch actually do this really, really, successfully and mighty vine kind of imported a lot of
Susan Silver: a lot of the equipment and knowledge from from kind of their Dutch partners. But it turns out that growing under glass is really hard, and tomatoes are really finicky.
Susan Silver: and disease wiped out a whole greenhouse, and it was much slower growing than growing. Going was much slower going than they expected. But
Susan Silver: you know the unmet need that they had seen. They truly developed a product that met that unmet need they were able to deliver, given their business model a delicious year round. Tomato? So they could own. That.
Susan Silver: Does that answer your question.
Malc: That does that was perfect. That makes sense. So they had some strategic scalability in that messaging, and they were trying to see if that resonated so there was kind of the short term, and also a longer term component of that.
Susan Silver: So now remember, this is to consumers.
Susan Silver: Okay, so this is messaging to consumers. It's different than what they're messaging to. Potential investors would have been, and I think for you all, especially like given kind of the situation you're in. If I were doing a pitch.
Susan Silver: then I would not only have my kind of customer positioning statement, but I would also do one to investors, because investors have very different unmet needs than tomato eating people.
Susan Silver: Okay? Or you know, what have you? So
Susan Silver: you guys know, based on kind of everything you've learned. You know what investors, what their unmet need is right. They want to make. They want to invest in successful companies so they can make a lot of money fast.
Susan Silver: Okay? They want. They want. That's what they're looking for scalable businesses, coachable founders, business ideas that are better, stronger, faster. For some reason. So doing. Your positioning statement for your kind of customer first is gonna help you get a better kind of center of gravity around. Why, you're why you're telling people you're great.
Susan Silver: And then that trend that impacts
Susan Silver: how you talk to investors. The other thing from a positioning statement standpoint is that from an elevator pitch standpoint?
Susan Silver: to me it's if somebody says, You know, lexi. Q.
Susan Silver: What are Lex IQ. What are you?
Susan Silver: You're going to say you're competitive set, what we are.
Susan Silver: And you're going to say, why, we're different and special. And that's kind of the beginning of your elevator pitch, regardless of who you're talking to.
Susan Silver: Okay? So so this all kind of works together. But kind of so business model is totally irrelevant to consumers.
Susan Silver: it is very relevant to investors.
Susan Silver: So hopefully, that extra piece helps even more.
Susan Silver: I'm gonna give you another example.
Chloe Lannert: Brian.
Susan Silver: Sorry.
Brian at Cirlce+: Just a question, Susan.
Brian at Cirlce+: do you communicate each of these separately
Brian at Cirlce+: or collectively?
Brian at Cirlce+: Aye.
Susan Silver: Question, Brian. So there are different ways that you can do this right? So elevator pitch.
Susan Silver: competitive set.
Susan Silver: And then why, you're different and special.
Susan Silver: If you're having a conversation with someone, and I'll give you my none example. Now, cause it's great to have a non example. I was once working with an All girls Catholic High School in the suburbs of Chicago, helping them to kind of do their positioning. And we got to a place that they were really excited about during the summer went during the off season.
Susan Silver: fall rolls around, and the teachers and the administration that the administrators were getting ready for for their parents, their potential parent Open House night.
Susan Silver: and their president called me up, and she said, You know everybody loves the positioning, but the teachers, many of whom are nuns. The teachers are getting ready to talk to the parents, and they don't know how to use the positioning statement when they're talking to the parents.
Susan Silver: and I thought that was a great question. And so let me help you the way I helped the nuns. So what I thought about was, okay. So in this case.
Susan Silver: the parents have already come to Regina Dominican High School, because they know it's an all girls Catholic high school.
Susan Silver: so we don't need to tell them what it is they're in the building. So let's start with why, Regina Dominican is great. Let's start with point of difference. And I'm a big believer in saying it in your own words. Okay? Because to me.
Susan Silver: when you actually are in the position of having a conversation, a real conversation, human to human.
Susan Silver: The last thing you want to do is spew something that sounds memorized and robotic.
Susan Silver: The whole point of marketing is, it's a proxy for one on one conversation. So if you get to be having a one on one conversation with someone who's interested about your business.
Susan Silver: don't spew memorize stuff at them.
Susan Silver: Be comfortable with kind of stay restating in your own. In your own words, your own language. So I said, Okay, have have the teachers say what their point of difference is. But then, before the parent teacher, open house before that night, have them take a look at each of the reasons to believe and think about a personal anecdote
Susan Silver: that they have from their own experience, teaching at Regina Dominican.
Susan Silver: and that brings that reason to be believed to life, so that when they talk to the parents and say what the point of difference is, then they can say, for example.
Susan Silver: and tell the anecdote
Susan Silver: that brings the point of different life about one reason to believe. So that's that's one way to kind of
Susan Silver: to use the positioning. To have a conversation with someone where you're not gonna puke it all on them at once. Okay, you're gonna be conscious of kind of what the situation is.
Susan Silver: If they if they keep asking you questions and you'll work some of the other things in. You know, if you're doing advertising of any kind, typically you're gonna pick one of the reasons to believe. And and a company it may just be, you know, if you're if you're doing paper click or something like that it might just be around a reasons to believe it's probably gonna include your point of difference and why you're great. But it's not gonna be everything at once. And you're never gonna talk about the target or the unmet need the the targets, gonna the unmet need are gonna help. You find your people.
Susan Silver: And the target is the one piece of the the positioning statement that actually translates to your marketing plan. Because those the
Susan Silver: those are the people you're going to be trying to reach with your marketing plan.
Susan Silver: So I realize that's a huge, long answer. Did that answer your question?
Brian at Cirlce+: Yes, yes, I did. Thank you.
Susan Silver: Probably like 10 times more than you expected or needed. But there you go.
Susan Silver: Okay.
Susan Silver: So I'm going to give you another example and thank you for asking questions. I appreciate it.
Susan Silver: patient impact was a
Susan Silver: a very early stage company that I worked on worked with many years ago in the beginning, and
Susan Silver: they targeted outpatient healthcare organizations
Susan Silver: that wanted to know how they were perceived by their patients in real time. You know, the funny thing is. This was probably
Susan Silver: 1617 years ago.
Susan Silver: and what patient impact did was they were the very first business
Susan Silver: to create electronic patient satisfaction surveys. Most of you have gotten many of them. You know it, many of them across your life.
Susan Silver: but know that it didn't used to be a thing. The only way that that healthcare organizations and physicians got any kind of consumer feedback? Was there? Was this one company that would send out paper surveys once a year, and then aggregate the results. And the founders of patient impact said, There's got to be a better way. Why can't we do electronic surveying of the patients? And the funny thing is, most people didn't think it would work because most patients are old and back. Then people said, old people don't use computers.
Susan Silver: Okay? And they're so wrong, right? They're so wrong. But that was what patient impact was up against when they were founded. But their founder, said, I think this is a real thing. She'd worked for a consulting firm in the in kind of healthcare space. So they were an electronic patient. Satisfaction survey
Susan Silver: that helped your businesses be more profitable every day, because you think about it.
Susan Silver: that the old way of doing things. If somebody told you that your their toilet had been dirty
Susan Silver: it could have been 10 months ago. But if somebody told you that your bathroom was dirty yesterday, there's something that you, as a business can do to kind of improve things rapidly. Okay, so that was kind of what was gonna help the businesses to improve like on the spot, like right away, real time information. So how did they help these healthcare organizations become more profitable? One. Because they generated actionable information. Daily.
Susan Silver: 2. It quickly paid back, and 3. They provided expert customer support to help people kind of learn how to use the results so that they could have a more profitable business. So it's not perfect, you know, whenever I look at these I did this a long time ago, but still
Susan Silver: it's it's got it. Got them going in the right direction kind of focusing on a profitability message. Because there were so many different choices.
Susan Silver: Obviously they were starting a completely new and different way of doing things in the healthcare space. But this is kind of where they focused on in the beginning.
Susan Silver: So this is actually not a linear process. I'm gonna take you through it. And it's gonna seem like it's linear. But it's not okay. As you change one thing, other things change and the whole positioning statement impacts other pieces. But you know, it's funny. This was a an early tech stars company.
Susan Silver: power to switch back in the the O's. I think the odds. And they didn't have flip chart paper, so we did it on a whiteboard, which meant we had to keep crossing things off and erase thing and taking pictures. But you can see even just this one whiteboard. We were crossing things off, moving things around, thinking through. So what I'm gonna take you through today can be deceptively simple. Okay? And I want you to kind of think about it. It can be simple. But it's also keeping a lot of things in your head.
Susan Silver: but work with me, and I'll help you. I'll help you do a decent one. So like I mentioned before, we're gonna start with unmet need. Because hopefully, the reasons that you founded the company that you're currently working on is because you saw a real unmet need and figure it out a way to solve it better, stronger, faster.
Susan Silver: So we're gonna start with unmet need, because you're really close to it. Okay, when I work with clients that have been around for many years. They've evolved and morphed and pivoted, and Lord only knows. Right? They're they're they're much sometimes on that need is much harder because they are doing so many different things. But, you guys, I love working with entrepreneurs in early stage, because you're really close to this. And this is so important. This is the driver of the whole positioning statement. Okay, what is the real unmet need you saw?
Susan Silver: And how are you solving it better, faster, stronger.
Susan Silver: So when I think about unmet need, it's really what is this customer problem you're solving?
Susan Silver: And the way I think about it is. Somebody woke up in the morning and said, Wow! If only there were a way to or wouldn't it be great if or I wish we could?
Susan Silver: Okay? And that's what you guys are answering theoretically with your product service
Susan Silver: is, somebody says, Wow, wouldn't it be great if there was a way to? And you are like Tadda. Now, there is a way to
Susan Silver: okay.
Susan Silver: So unmet need, I'm going to give you any. So so one thing I didn't tell you is that
Susan Silver: you know I mentioned that you have all these choices to fill in the positioning statement.
Susan Silver: What that means is, it's very unusual to kind of have an Aha moment when you're doing positioning. It's not like, Wow! I never thought of that before. I can't believe we never thought of that before. It. It's more a process of kind of winnowing and deciding strategically which direction you're going to go in.
Susan Silver: I did once have a client where we did kind of have a big Aha! And it was around unmet needs. So I'm going to show that to you. Now, this is the sprawing.
Susan Silver: Okay, you've probably never seen a spring which is too bad.
Susan Silver: The sprawing was invented by the former CEO of Bally's total fitness.
Susan Silver: who loves to run, but has bad knees.
Susan Silver: and the only place he can run is on sand.
Susan Silver: So he decided to invent a treadmill that replicates running on sand.
Susan Silver: And this actually works. Okay, this really does replicate running on sand. I know it looks crazy.
Susan Silver: but it does, all right. So
Susan Silver: you know, they didn't do any kind of consumer research, because the former CEO of valleys. He was the consumer target.
Susan Silver: They. They wanted to make it purple, but they couldn't get it machined all in purple. They named it, destroying, because they thought that the wilder and wackier it was, the more likely people were to get like, give it attention.
Susan Silver: none of those things are correct. But but the interesting thing is is that
Susan Silver: the CEO and his team
Susan Silver: they were industry veterans. Okay. They knew everybody in the industry, and they thought for sure that they'd be selling into their friends at Equinox and Bally's and La Fitness, and they'd be selling thousands of these things.
Susan Silver: and
Susan Silver: they were having a problem because they weren't making the sales at those big companies. They would walk in and say, Hi! And there'd be lots of hugs, kisses catching up
Susan Silver: but the places they were selling were kind of smaller health club chains where? You know, they're maybe selling one or 2 at a time instead of 100 at a time.
Susan Silver: So the target
Susan Silver: that
Susan Silver: that spring had was purchasing people at these large Health club chains.
Susan Silver: and during the positioning session.
Susan Silver: We all sat around a big table and I asked the team
Susan Silver: what they knew about these purchasing people, and you know they had worked with these people for most of their careers, and and I asked them, You know, what? What do their bosses rate them on? You know. What are their Kpis, how does their boss know if they're doing a good job? Why do they get promoted? Okay.
Susan Silver: what are? What are kind of the unmet needs that these purchasing people are working on every day at work. And they were like, that's easy. They're really 3 things.
Susan Silver: First.
Susan Silver: it's replacing old equipment.
Susan Silver: Second, it's keeping costs low.
Susan Silver: and third is bringing in the hot new trend.
Susan Silver: And they made this list, and they all looked at the list, and they kind of went.
Susan Silver: Oh, because the sprawling was not old equipment. It was an incremental cost, and it wasn't the hot new trend yet.
Susan Silver: and they said, No wonder people aren't buying at large health club chains, because what they realized was
Susan Silver: in the purchasing function.
Susan Silver: These people were not responsible for or rated on customer acquisition or customer retention
Susan Silver: and something new and cool at a gym
Susan Silver: helps with customer retention and customer acquisition.
Susan Silver: But at large healthcare change. The purchasing people don't aren't rated on that
Susan Silver: the reason that sprung was having success at smaller Health club chains is because the owner operators were still doing the purchasing, and they cared about customer retention and acquisition.
Susan Silver: So what this exercise helps bring realize is that they were selling in the wrong place, or they were focusing on selling in the wrong place, and what they needed to think about was, how do they become the hot new trend?
Susan Silver: Because until they became the hot new trend.
Susan Silver: the purchasing people at large Health club chains were not going to be bringing them in.
Susan Silver: so that kind of was very, a very helpful exercise for them to kind of think about their whole approach to sales and marketing, and change it, based on kind of what, what
Susan Silver: what value they were bringing to the marketplace, and to whom? All right. So that's the spring.
Susan Silver: The other thing is
Susan Silver: is, he is
Susan Silver: throughout the whole positioning statement. You'll notice that it's not fancy advertising words. Okay, what we're using is very, very basic. This is not creative writing. This is the step before that which is kind of just the facts, ma'am.
Susan Silver: A lot of times people are guilty of trying to make it too complicated. Remember, I said, what do they wish for what you know? Only there were a way to. I actually
Susan Silver: had a potential client suggest to me that their company's unmet need or their company's customers unmet need was that they wish they had efficient and effective packaging systems that align with lean principles which nobody ever said to another person with a straight face.
Susan Silver: okay, that's completely wishful thinking. And it's not what I'll call kind of human words. It sounds like a robot.
Susan Silver: Okay, it sounds AI generated.
Susan Silver: I also have seen somebody say that
Susan Silver: they thought that their potential customers wanted to optimize for the delivery of real time communication, communication across their enterprise. No, no, people don't talk like that. And this or I want my more cost, efficient print of like printing flexibility.
Susan Silver: This isn't how people talk. Okay, the the one in the middle.
Susan Silver: wanna optimize for delivery real time communications across my enterprise was actually one of my clients on their website. And I put this in when I was doing the workshop with them. And they were like, is that us? It's like, yeah. So you don't wanna sound like this, you wanna when I do a workshop around this, I call the exercise Beers with peers. And you wanna picture what would you legitimately say with a straight face to a friend or a colleague if you were having a beer with them. So things like.
Susan Silver: I want a deeper understanding of my customers, or I want to build community on my campus, or I like being buzz. But hate being hung over, or I want my golf swing to be more consistent, or I want to live the way I want in retirement, or one of you seems like one of your I met needs, is there there? Your target is frustrated by Amc. And fraud issues?
Susan Silver: So
Susan Silver: these are unmet needs and and kind of it's said in real words that anyone can understand.
Susan Silver: Sometimes I get pushback because someone says, Oh, we're in a very technical industry.
Susan Silver: But remember what I said about the Heisman.
Susan Silver: Nobody wants to spend the time.
Susan Silver: so it's so much better to say anything that you're talking about in
Susan Silver: in kind, especially
Susan Silver: when you're starting out.
Susan Silver: What what would a real person say versus a technical expert that communicates the same thing? Because the more you can kind of just
Susan Silver: Make it easier to digest the better off you're going to be.
Susan Silver: You will prove your technical expertise in other places. But this is not the place to do it.
Susan Silver: So I'm going to use a running example of Allen Brothers Steaks, because again everybody eats
Susan Silver: Allen Brothers very high-end steak company. They started out supplying restaurants. Really upscale restaurants like Mortons.
Susan Silver: with with Usda graded prime stakes. People love their stakes so much that they created an e-commerce side of their business. This is for the e-commerce side of their business.
Susan Silver: So the unmet need for Allen Brothers was their customer wanted to eat the very best steak possible at home. It doesn't have to be hard.
Susan Silver: Okay.
Susan Silver: They wanted to eat the very best eggs possible at home. That's the unmet need that Allen Brothers was meeting with their e-commerce business
Susan Silver: before I go into target. Does anyone have any questions about unmet need? It's a hard one.
Susan Silver: because they're you know you want to sound real. You don't want to put words into their mouth. You want to make sure that you're looking at it from their perspective, not yours. This is not wishful thinking. This is what you you know. This is what you really know about your potential customers. And it's really about what's the unmet need you saw that made you found this business?
Susan Silver: Okay?
Susan Silver: Questions.
Susan Silver: Gonna take a drink that you think.
Susan Silver: Okay.
Susan Silver: we'll go on to target.
Snow Sungwon Lee: I I have one that's.
Susan Silver: Yeah, that's him. Yay.
Susan Silver: please know. Yes, please ask me.
Snow Sungwon Lee: Patience. Yeah, I I mean, if we want to make it really simple and if if I want to make it really simple and easy to understand it. Often it becomes too general for me.
Snow Sungwon Lee: So yeah, how can I make it more specific.
Susan Silver: Actually, that's a great question, Snow. Thank you for asking. So what I haven't mentioned yet
Susan Silver: is that the place where you differentiate yourself is in the point of difference.
Susan Silver: Okay, the unmet need is kind of basic human condition stuff.
Susan Silver: It's not where you differentiate.
Susan Silver: In fact.
Susan Silver: Bain, the consulting firm, has done a ton of really interesting research around unmet needs on the B To B side and the B to C side. If you want to dig into this more. It's called The Elements of Value. And there's a Harvard Business Review. There are 2 Harvard business review articles about it, one for B to B one to B to C, and then Bain also has a bunch of stuff published on their website. But what happens is.
Susan Silver: believe it or not, when you think about it. There are only so many unmet needs
Susan Silver: on the on the human, on the like, the consumer side or on the business side.
Susan Silver: I was working with a Fintech company here in Chicago. I was on their advisory board and they were a combine that helped trade people that helped train people to be day traders, and when they qualified the company would give them funding to trade for them.
Susan Silver: Okay? And the unmet need was super clear. But they got to a point in kind of the life cycle of the industry, and they said.
Susan Silver: other competitors are using the same augment. Me unmet need. Should we pick a different one. It was like, no, that's the biggest unmet need that's like saying that you're not gonna pay attention to that. We want to get our clothes clean and the laundry detergent space. But you're gonna talk about something else.
Susan Silver: You know. The basic thing with launder deters is everybody wants to get their clothes clean. So you wanna address that. So so don't contort yourself to try to be different any place. But in the point of difference. Okay, otherwise it's basic human condition.
Susan Silver: I want to be healthy. I want to thrive. I don't want to go to jail, you know, stuff like that, depending on the category which I have had clients where the unmit need was. We don't want to go to jail, which makes life interesting. Calvin. Then Antonio.
Kelvin Alaneme: Yeah, thank you very much, Susan, for this insightful session. And my question. I think maybe you will get to it later. But just when we are asked to construct the one liners. Okay, I know you're mentioning this. 5 key elements of value prop sometimes is just one liners. We don't have time to fit in a lot, so I think it will be. W. Will find it helpful for you to tell us some of the critical things that should make it in a one liner.
Kelvin Alaneme: And you know of this value prop. Which ones will be very, very poignant to feature in the one.
Susan Silver: And that's what I'm talking about. When I talk about elevator pitch, it's what the heck are you so competitive set? And why are you different and special. Okay, like, that's that's the core of it.
Susan Silver: And then the conversation flows from there. But that's where I absolutely would start.
Susan Silver: Antonio.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: Hi, Susan, thank you. So we are aware. It's a ordering for mental well, being, it's a wearable and
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: so to identify you on that need. So we we have, we have been conducting a lot of interviews to consumers for wearables. And what we hear from them is that they don't have a way for monitoring the stress which results in your brain. Fog, tiredness, and eventually affects the relationship where their family
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: and ordering a blue purple wash. Don't do that. Really? Well, so that's kind of the met need that we believe we're covering. Would that be a good place to start to define these a met needs, and, you know, use their pain, their emotional, they mo their emotions and their and their pain
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: to define our many.
Susan Silver: I think I think it's a very good place to start for you. Let me put in a pitch that not everything is due to pain.
Susan Silver: Okay. So I think that sometimes
Susan Silver: sometimes that gets overused and makes it sound almost a like a bigger deal than it is with mighty 9 tomatoes. You know the fact that you have nothing to eat but but crappy tomatoes in the wintertime is not a pain.
Susan Silver: you know. It's an annoyance, but it's not. It's not causing anybody
Susan Silver: deep physical discomfort. So you know, Antonio, for you, I think there are different ways to think about it. And you're gonna want to parse those out just to kind of like, look at your list. So you know I don't want to get Alzheimers.
Susan Silver: It's probably a big one, or I don't want dementia, or I want to do everything I can't, you know. That's probably where, like they want to do everything they can to avoid getting dementia, but it's probably because they don't want to get dementia is is probably a huge one, but you know it could be. You know, I want to
Susan Silver: be you know, able to be a contributing member of society until I die. You know it could be. I want to be able to play with my great grandchildren. So there, there are different kind of nuances around that. But I'm gonna suspect in this case it's actually not a pain. It's a fear.
Susan Silver: You know it's the fear of of getting dementia and and and being impaired in that way.
Susan Silver: So I think, starting there, knowing what I know about the topic my dad died of early onset. Alzheimer's, I'd say, I think you're dead on
Susan Silver: So so yeah. And you know the interviews that you're conducting. Obviously, you don't want it. You're not gonna say, you know, 90% of the people we talk. But it's really about the qualitative. What are you hearing when people are talking about this this, you know, and and kind of listing out the things you're hearing so great question. Thank you.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: Thank you.
Susan Silver: So target
Susan Silver: target for you guys
Susan Silver: is who is the group
Susan Silver: that has this unmet need.
Susan Silver: knowing that you are all about Tam all the time, probably at this point.
Susan Silver: But who is the customer that has the unmet need?
Susan Silver: I was judging an entrepreneurial contest for a school here in Chicago a few years ago, and one of the companies, one of the startups, said that their target was females 5 to 50.
Susan Silver: Marcel, you look perplexed. Why are you perplexed by that target?
Susan Silver: Too broad, absolutely way, too broad. Basically, everybody who has 2 X chromosomes plus
Susan Silver: right? Like, it's just like that's basically saying, like all women, which is too broad. The reason there are a lot of reasons why it's too broad. But remember, I said, that target is who your marketing plan is directed towards
Susan Silver: saying, you guys, just.
Susan Silver: there's no way you have enough money or resources or time to kind of like go after all women. But the other thing is is that they're gonna have different unmet needs.
Susan Silver: Okay, that's the key thing like, that's how you know, if you need more than one positioning statement, and I hope you don't. We'll get to that. But what you're looking for is kind of a cohort where you can find them, where they kind of are in the same space, you know. So basically, you know, the 5 year old doesn't even have a budget right? She's an influencer.
Susan Silver: But you got to pick.
Susan Silver: You're bullseye.
Susan Silver: It doesn't mean that you're gonna say bad things about the people who aren't near bullseye. But you've got to focus someplace so that you can have a specific message. So you don't get the heisman.
Susan Silver: Okay? Because if you do a broadly generic message, no one is going to pay attention to it. No one wants to listen to your message.
Susan Silver: Okay, so you need to have a message. That's oh, it's for me.
Susan Silver: Okay, so you need to to pick your bullseye, and I'm going to define it this way for you.
Susan Silver: This is who you are going to chase.
Susan Silver: not who you accept. Okay. Years ago, when I had just, I was about 2 years into founding argentum.
Susan Silver: I remember, I work with mid market and growth stage companies. And I got a phone call. True story. I got a voicemail message on my answering machine because this was way back in like 2,007, and it was somebody I knew at Proctor and Gamble.
Susan Silver: and he said, Hey, Susan, this is Steve Knox. We have a problem here at Png that we think you can help us solve. Give me a call.
Susan Silver: Do you think I called Steve Knox back and said, you're a multi-billion dollar company. You're not in my target. I'm not going to talk to you
Susan Silver: like no way.
Susan Silver: I said I. I said to Steve, what are you?
Susan Silver: And looking for me to do? And it was something that I was interested in.
Susan Silver: I was going to be able to learn stuff which was going to help my clients, and they were willing to pay me for the work that I did. So
Susan Silver: all good right? I could write case studies about it. I was gonna kind of be able to get new knowledge to help my existing clients. All that was awesome.
Susan Silver: So
Susan Silver: the the key is, though.
Susan Silver: I would never do a minute of business development
Susan Silver: towards companies.
Susan Silver: He's like Procter and Gamble or Craft or Morning Star. Okay? Because they have lots of people like me. And I have very limited time.
Susan Silver: Okay? And we all have really limited time, money resources to do our business development.
Susan Silver: So it's not about like who randomly comes to you.
Susan Silver: It's about who you are gonna chase
Susan Silver: ace.
Susan Silver: And you might want to think about it like, okay, where they were going to be most likely to be successful. Given what we offer.
Susan Silver: Okay? And that's how it's really scary.
Susan Silver: But you guys have been, I know, been very. You're being forced to be disciplined about your tam as you do your pitch. Okay? And you know that means leaving money on the table. But remember that it's money that's like
Susan Silver: it's not.
Susan Silver: It's a much riskier bet for the money you're leaving on the table than the for the people that you're actually chasing. Okay? And and one of my favorite examples is Gibson's Steakhouse. I I realize this is a very steak, heavy presentation. But Gibson's restaurant group is actually the largest restaurant chain in the United States.
Susan Silver: And I was having a really interesting conversation with their CEO about his dad, who was the founder of Gibson, Steve senior.
Susan Silver: and the this that Steve, Jr. Was telling me that they had had a really hard time getting Steve senior to agree to a specific target, because Steve Senior was the consimate hospitality. Guy
Susan Silver: and Steve senior said, we welcome everybody
Susan Silver: right, we welcome everybody. Why would we pick a target? We welcome everybody.
Susan Silver: And I said, Of course you do. But who are you chasing right? If a vegetarian goes to Gibson's, they're gonna have a lovely time, despite the wrong meat parading by right. But they're gonna have a lovely time they're gonna be things on the menu they can eat. People will be nice to them. It will be a pleasant, convenient evening.
Susan Silver: but Gibson's isn't gonna spend a dime trying to convince vegetarians to come to Gibson's right. And that's the difference. Okay, it's who are you, gonna Chase? Not who you welcome? I welcomed. Png, hell, yeah. Hell, yeah, I welcome. Png.
Susan Silver: but I'm not chasing Png, not one bit.
Susan Silver: Okay. And that's the difference, because you don't have enough resources to chase everybody. So in order to be more efficient with your marketing, you got to figure out, who do you want to actually chase? And who do you want your team to chase.
Susan Silver: Some of you, I know, have several targets. Go house. I know you have 2 targets, because you've got a platform, you know if you're too
Susan Silver: find a business model, then you've got kind of 2 targets, and you've signed up for this all right. But let me show you guys. Why, I don't recommend having multiple targets, particularly at your stage. Okay? In my world, my little marketing world. When I think about one target, I think of one budget.
Susan Silver: and I think a one stack of work.
Susan Silver: When you have 2 targets you have half the money for each, and you have twice the amount of work, because there are no economies of scale.
Susan Silver: That's what you're signing up for. So my wish for you is that you not do that to yourselves.
Susan Silver: I guarantee you. Your teams aren't big enough, and you don't have enough funding to do this. Well.
Susan Silver: so where are you going to place your bat
Susan Silver: for those of you who have a 2 sided marketplace you've already chosen this path, and that's fine. That's your business model. But no, that's what you've signed up for. But for those of you who don't have a 2 sided business model.
Susan Silver: I would really encourage you
Susan Silver: to think deeply about kind of who is your core target.
Susan Silver: And where are you making your bet?
Susan Silver: Okay, where are you making the bet? Where you're going to put money and and time and resources against this
Susan Silver: questions.
Susan Silver: No questions.
Susan Silver: This is a tricky one.
Susan Silver: It's a scary one. It's a really.
J.Loh | TRAVARAS: Okay, I have a question
J.Loh | TRAVARAS: given that. Sorry I'm camera off because I have Covid right now. But.
Susan Silver: So, okay, I'm sorry.
J.Loh | TRAVARAS: Given that. We also are 2 sided marketplace. We have our supply inventory
J.Loh | TRAVARAS: of like travel operators. And then we're also targeting travelers, consumers. So I love this like
J.Loh | TRAVARAS: this visual of breaking down the like, the money, the time, the resources, and also the work. Just curious like, how do you decide on like which one to prioritize? It's like, seems like.
J.Loh | TRAVARAS: yeah, like a chicken. And the egg issue.
Susan Silver: You know what I think I mean, really, in order for your business model to succeed, to succeed, you have to have both.
J.Loh | TRAVARAS: Right? So then.
J.Loh | TRAVARAS: okay.
J.Loh | TRAVARAS: I'll keep listening. Thank you.
Susan Silver: And also we can also talk, talk, offline, but kind of like cause you need. You know, you need to have both in order for it to work. So like, there's this.
Susan Silver: there's this piece of care and feeding of
Susan Silver: you know you need. You need to make sure that your travel companies are happy, so they stay, and then you need to bring them. You need to feed them with consumers.
J.Loh | TRAVARAS: Right for us. It seems like getting the supply side is actually easier and fighting the consumers is harder. So like marketing, marketing B to C is like more difficult because we're not spending any dollars marketing dollars. We're doing everything organic and also just like trying to do some organic watering hole customer recruiting.
Susan Silver: So so great point. Let me let me let me ride with that. So you've got so you kind of have your answer already, right, like you're having a really easy time getting the supply side.
Susan Silver: So focusing on consumers, you know, the the hard thing with B 2 C
Susan Silver: is that it's easy to spend a lot of money badly fast.
Susan Silver: and that's the sad truth. You know. B, 2 B. You can be more deliberate. You get to have one on one selling often. But
Susan Silver: B to C is is trickier because it can be so expensive, and and frankly, the the more well defined your target.
Susan Silver: The more efficient your marketing spend will be
Susan Silver: because you're going to be kind of fishing in the right pond.
J.Loh | TRAVARAS: Right.
J.Loh | TRAVARAS: I'll have to think about that. We have a call with our marketing person later. So yeah.
Susan Silver: Sound oh, yes, Alejandra.
Alejandra Guillen: Thank you, Susan. I'm Alexandra. I'm working with Antonio in aware the or ring for mental wellness. And I think that our our target. We've been focusing a lot in high performers who are suffering from stress.
Alejandra Guillen: A a lot of entrepreneurs, people who are starting their own business or who run, let's say, in very high level positions. And and so there's a lot of stake with stress. Now, we've also heard that, you know, there's other pockets that are very interesting, like
Alejandra Guillen: women who are, you know, who are becoming moms in their forties, who also have a lot to protect in terms of like the mental wellness and and their health.
Alejandra Guillen: We haven't explored so much that avenue or actually others. So you know, we picked our target. But what would you recommend when it comes to understanding how many other potential targets there may be, and how to make that decision.
Susan Silver: Great question, Alejandra. You know.
Susan Silver: it's funny. I'm smiling. Because, yeah, as I mentioned in kind of my my background, I've seen a lot of startup pitches.
Susan Silver: and invariably.
Susan Silver: you know.
Susan Silver: kind of it seems like a lot of times people start companies start by selling to people who are like them.
Susan Silver: so high performers under a lot of stress like
Susan Silver: Bingo. But the thing is is that if you open your aperture, and if you think about the world more broadly, which it sounds like advisors are encouraging you to do. You're gonna you're gonna rapidly see that
Susan Silver: there are other. There's a bigger tam out there.
Susan Silver: Okay, that's that still shares the same unmet need. But but the thing that I think a lot about is.
Susan Silver: who are the people
Susan Silver: who are willing to pay to solve this problem.
Susan Silver: And that's the most important thing, because you guys, for the most part, I believe, are in this to actually make money for your business to drive revenue. So
Susan Silver: you need to think about what's what's a large enough group of people
Susan Silver: with the same unmet need.
Susan Silver: where they're willing to pay for what you're offering to make what their unmet need is. Go away.
Susan Silver: You know. So I think when you think about kind of
Susan Silver: new mothers.
Susan Silver: there are probably a hell of a lot more of them than there are, you know, high performing entrepreneurs.
Susan Silver: probably.
Susan Silver: and it's it's a
Susan Silver: it's it's certainly easier to target.
Susan Silver: Certainly easier to find. So I think, as you think about kind of like. Not only are they willing to pay for it. Is there a big enough group. But how hard or easy are they to find.
Susan Silver: And message, too.
Susan Silver: you know, because I think about like
Susan Silver: everybody's got stress right? Everybody has stress these days. Everybody.
Susan Silver: You know, it's a pervasive, so societal problem.
Susan Silver: So for you, it potentially is looking at
Susan Silver: all the different kind of segments or buckets. I mean, shoot. You think about like children and anxiety. And it's just horrifying.
Susan Silver: Right? So if you think about kind of all the buckets, even that are in the news, like all the different buckets, and then think about the one that's maybe going to be easiest for you. That's got enough heft.
Susan Silver: It's going to be reasonably easy to reach and and they're willing to pay for what you're offering
Susan Silver: versus potentially. You know, I know that there's certainly been more more talk in the entrepreneurial community that really kind of talks about mental health. It didn't used to be that way right? And that's certainly more out in the open.
Susan Silver: But is it still kind of a, you know, that's kind of the cost of being an entrepreneur. And you're gonna tough it out. And are people really gonna pay for it, you know, especially if entrepreneurs are still kind of like the really early stage. They might be too busy to pay attention to it, or they might be to stretch them financially to be able to pay for it.
Susan Silver: Whereas if you think about like
Susan Silver: new moms theoretically, they're, you know, you know. So I'm not advocating for new moms. But I'm saying there may be some places that are easier
Susan Silver: to start to. Kind of to kind of get your bearings, get your credibility before you move. If you think about it like a bullseye before you move out.
Alejandra Guillen: No, I love it. Thank you so much. Susan, in a
Alejandra Guillen: to understand who is willing to pay, we've been interviewing people who have already invested in some wearables. I don't know if you have a quick, advice as to how do you figure out who's willing to pay for what you're offering. This may be a little bit out of the scope.
Susan Silver: Much more detailed answer. That's gonna involve kind of more detailed research.
Susan Silver: but I'd be happy to talk with you about it. Offline.
Alejandra Guillen: Okay, so thank you. Thank you so much.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: John, just just a question, because we had a workshop on on this like a couple of weeks ago a a last week about sales. Would it be just an an option to just go and sell and sell it? Go on Facebook book groups, go on Instagram and sell our product, sell our product to to Facebook groups and see who buys it. Would that be a a good approach? And and then we'll those ones who are willing to give our their credit card.
Susan Silver: I think you need. I think you need to be careful, because most many folks, many Facebook groups, say that 10 times fast. Many Facebook groups are closed and you are not welcome to do that. Okay, like they don't want you there selling shit.
Susan Silver: So you need to be very careful and be respectful
Susan Silver: about kind of like how you're approaching it. Cause you'll get kicked out fast.
Susan Silver: and and the community won't like you, you know, and that's not where you want to be. You don't want to be a jerk.
Susan Silver: So thank you
Susan Silver: some. Sometimes
Susan Silver: the important thing. If you're if you've got, you know. Sometimes in A B 2 B sale you have, lots of influencers and lots of people involved in the purchase. So I like to think about who signs the check.
Susan Silver: Okay? And even even
Susan Silver: it's not really J, lo, is it? I mean, it might be. And that's very funny, and that's awesome. But J. Lo! I think for the travel company you were mentioning the 2 side of business model.
J.Loh | TRAVARAS: Nub.
Susan Silver: Who signs the check right, and in your case it's the consumers. They're gonna drive revenue for you or it might not. It might be the travel company. But but kind of if you think about who signs the check. That can be an indicator, I think you are farther along than that because you've already had an easy time kind of getting the providers. But for those of you who are involved in more complicated sales at A, at a at a
Susan Silver: organization
Susan Silver: kind of thinking about, who actually signs the check. And when I say, sign the check. What I mean is, who has to say yes.
Susan Silver: for the check to get cut.
Susan Silver: Okay, and start there. Start there with your positioning.
Susan Silver: Some examples of target.
Susan Silver: Whoever has employees with unvested Rsus. Yes, that would be a target. Man with health insurance who have a concerning medical skin issue. Lawyers who draft and analyze contracts. I'm looking at you. Lexi. Q. Owners of businesses with under 1,000 employees, physical therapy companies with at least 25 locations or direct to consumer companies that require cold distribution channel.
Susan Silver: Okay, so these are all just random examples of target.
Susan Silver: You can use basic research to gather some facts about your target. Some of these you may be able to tap into now. Some it might be as your company grows, you know, using customer interviews which many of you are doing, which I think is awesome. If you're shipping anything looking at zip codes, just get a handle on geography. Call reports from salespeople. If you have them.
Susan Silver: Social media. You know. What are people saying who's following you?
Susan Silver: going on sales calls yourself? I'm guessing that a lot of you are already doing this. But you know, even writing the information down is really important, especially if you're doing B 2 B, and you're getting sales. The first thing I would do in the Kickoff meeting, or one of the things I would be sure to do in the Kickoff meeting is, ask the company or the business why they decided to work with you
Susan Silver: and write it down.
Susan Silver: Because that's a great way to get information about why people are deciding to buy you survey data
Susan Silver: trade show observations if you go
Susan Silver: so those are
Susan Silver: some different ways that you can go about approaching those. Okay, some of them kind of more down and dirty than others.
Susan Silver: The Allen Brothers Target
Susan Silver: has
Susan Silver: he's 55 plus male and an income over 200,000.
Susan Silver: The way we knew this was because we actually were able to do quantitative research. Allen Brothers had about 12,000 names in their database. We really weren't sure if it was kind of the man buying the stakes, or if he was kind of leaning back in his barca lounger and saying, Honey, you go. We're gonna be some stakes
Susan Silver: or something completely different. So we were able to do quantitative research to answer the question once and for all, that attended to be men who are buying the stakes themselves. And they were older and and well off.
Susan Silver: But you don't have to do quantitative research, and for most of you you can't yet, because you don't have enough customers in order to do statistically significant research. If you assume a response rate of about 2 or 3, you're you're looking at needing 1,000 people to send the survey to. Okay, so I can pretty confidently say that none of you have that yet. If you do, I'm stunned and odd. But there, there's an exercise that you can do
Susan Silver: that I call, who are your people
Susan Silver: and who are not your people? Okay? And there are some fundamental things as you think about your product as you think about your service, your business.
Susan Silver: You already know some things that your potential customers have to know or believe
Susan Silver: in order to be ripe to buy you.
Susan Silver: Okay with Allen Brothers there were 2 things.
Susan Silver: one.
Susan Silver: the people needed to already believe that great steak is worth paying more for.
Susan Silver: Okay, Allen Brothers did not have enough money
Susan Silver: to change people's minds. It's one of the one of the hardest things there is. There's nothing more expensive in marketing than getting people to decide to buy something they don't think they want or do something they don't think they want to do.
Susan Silver: Okay, I'm gonna
Susan Silver: I I would be very happy to place a nice fat bet that not one of you woke up this morning and said, Gee, I hope someone tries to sell me something today that I don't think I want to buy.
Susan Silver: That's a really tough road.
Susan Silver: So for Allen brothers.
Susan Silver: Their target was people who already loved great steak and were comfortable with paying more for it.
Susan Silver: They also needed to believe that it was possible to purchase great food online. Okay? And if they didn't believe both of these things
Susan Silver: they were not Allen Brothers Target. Okay? Cause Allen Brothers didn't want to sell them on these things. Allen brought. Allen Brothers wanted to sell them on Allen Brothers.
Susan Silver: so they didn't want to waste time convincing them of these things. They wanted to convince them that Allen Brothers was great. Great steak that you could buy online.
Susan Silver: Okay,
Susan Silver: When we did the research, we also learned some other things which were useful, for later they ate out a lot. They shopped in gourmet stores, and they gave Allen Brothers as gifts.
Susan Silver: You will be getting a packet
Susan Silver: of of tools. You'll get the format. You'll you'll get the the template.
Susan Silver: Okay for positioning. You'll actually get a more detailed worksheet and you'll get some target.
Susan Silver: Some target worksheets.
Susan Silver: the ones that you get will be divided. One will be for B to B, one will be for B to C. I've kind of
Susan Silver: blended them here just so you can see
Susan Silver: you don't need to answer all of these.
Susan Silver: and you know target is kind of roughly like persona. But I like to think of to me personas always kind of a creative writing exercise. And I'm way, too, like matter of fact, for that. This is about building the skeleton. You can hang whatever clothes you want on the skeleton. But first you gotta get a sense for kind of like.
Susan Silver: who is this person. How do you find them, or what? Who is this company? How do you find them, you know? Is it the revenue that they're generating? Is it. The behaviors they're doing. Is it up the geography that they're in things like that? That will help you kind of narrow down your target
Susan Silver: for the positioning statement. We just say that Alan Brothers target is affluent men 55, plus. I do a whole second page on target detail. Okay, that that comes out of kind of answering that that worksheet.
Susan Silver: Do you guys have any more questions about target
Susan Silver: before we move on?
Susan Silver: I I will tell you that when I'm doing the when I'm doing the 4 h workshop with my clients, we spend the most time on target.
Susan Silver: Okay, target is really important. It's in the background. But, like I said, all of your marketing is going to be directed at chasing this target, so kind of getting very granular and clear, and in agreement on who your target is is really critical to successfully be able to market your product and use the messaging that comes out of positioning
Susan Silver: competitive set.
Susan Silver: you know we've talked about. Where does that fit with the with the elevator pitch? It's what are you? Sometimes it's easy. I am a marketing strategy consultant. My ex husband was a lawyer.
Susan Silver: Mac, and cheese. Seems like it could be really my. My current husband is complicated because he's a scientist, so I can't say that. Cause there's like, if you say someone's a scientist or all kinds of other questions you ask Mac, and cheese. Seems like it would be really easy, but it's not.
Susan Silver: It can be an all family value dinner.
Susan Silver: It can be a kid's meal.
Susan Silver: It could be a teen snack or a start side dish.
Susan Silver: or it can be college. Gut, fill Whoa! Where to go. There it is. It can be college, so you can see that depending on what Mac and Cheese says it is.
Susan Silver: it has different competitors and different reasons why it's great.
Susan Silver: Okay? So so sometimes it's really easy.
Susan Silver: But other times it's way more complicated. And I think of the kind of with competitive set. I think of the human brain like an old-fashioned filing cabinet.
Susan Silver: I wanna be able to tell someone quickly what draw to open and what folder to pull out.
Susan Silver: Okay, that's what you want. You don't want to be mysterious. You don't want them to guess. This is not about being clever. Okay, what you want to do, someone's just ask you, tell me, what about your company.
Susan Silver: Do you really want to be coy and have them? Try to guess what you really do, or you want to tell them what you do.
Susan Silver: and then tell them why you're great and start a conversation. I vote for the latter.
Susan Silver: Allen Brothers, the online prime Me company back. When we did this positioning. There were only one, maybe 2 competitors.
Susan Silver: But this is very clear. Anybody can understand what they did. Okay? And that's the most important thing
Susan Silver: questions about competitive set.
Susan Silver: If you don't
Susan Silver: point of difference.
Susan Silver: it's wise, different, and special. Okay, this is the big Kahuna.
Susan Silver: This is your differentiator.
Susan Silver: You know, Antonio, I think you asked me earlier or actually no, it wasn't Antonio somebody else like
Susan Silver: about differentiating. This is where you differentiate. This is where you lay it on the line. Why are you different and special? You know. How are you solving that unmet need? Better, stronger, faster.
Susan Silver: If you want to be compelling about your point of difference. You're not going to be ambiguous. You're not going to talk about value or quality or service.
Susan Silver: People have no idea what these words mean to you.
Susan Silver: Okay? And it's really important to be clear about what they mean to you. When I have clients who use these words, I think of it as kind of like an internal team shorthand.
Susan Silver: and what we need to do is dig into it. So I know when my clients say, Oh, we're a high Quality Company.
Susan Silver: I want to know, what does that mean, and what are examples of what my client does
Susan Silver: that support that idea of quality? So we want to get beyond the generic.
Susan Silver: It's funny I had a client use. AI, and they loaded all of the interview transcripts I did into AI, and they asked it to generate a positioning statement.
Susan Silver: and the thing that was so interesting to me was that it was completely generic. It used words like this, okay, it it was.
Susan Silver: which is not a surprise, but it was super cliched. And what you're really trying to be. If you don't want to get the heisman, you don't want to be cliched. Okay, you want to be compelling, and you want to be clear that you're for them, and you want to be clear about why you're great. You don't want people to guess. Okay, if I see you know
Susan Silver: we offer value. I I I really don't know like what why that means I should buy them.
Susan Silver: The best points of difference clearly meet the unmet need. Remember, I said, the unmet need is kind of the fulcrum of all of this. So if
Susan Silver: you have kids and you want the time they spend away from you to be enriching.
Susan Silver: then someone like kids science lab that provided science classes to little kids and help kids become better thinkers. That's really compelling to parents. We help your kids become better thinkers. We know the unmet need is that they want the time their kids spend without them be enriching. But we talk about is that kids science lab helps kids become better thinkers
Susan Silver: or
Susan Silver: a company is spending too much time recruiting and hiring. Then you know, as as
Susan Silver: the company in your cohort, whose name I'm forgetting, never read an unqualified resume again is really compelling.
Susan Silver: Okay, because we know nobody likes to read a pile. Nobody likes to go through a pile of resume.
Susan Silver: So you need to be clear
Susan Silver: to yourself about how your point of difference meets the the unmet need that you've identified as being kind of the biggest, most important one.
Susan Silver: Luckily for you guys, and I really do mean this because you're really close to kind of still your your
Susan Silver: your kind of generative moment. As a company.
Susan Silver: you have a much clearer idea still, even even if you've pivoted of like, what's the unmet need you're trying to meet? And why are you better, stronger, faster. And that's what this is all about.
Susan Silver: Some examples of point of difference.
Susan Silver: Somebody could say, we have the fastest, most accurate consumer insights
Susan Silver: work with the best broker in your marketplace. And, by the way, all the examples I use are from clients I've worked with
Susan Silver: We ensure that the money you sent home is used the way it was intended. This is a company from the last cohort
Susan Silver: successfully navigate through turbulent market cycles.
Susan Silver: Everything you love about hard selzer without the alcohol, without the alcohol
Susan Silver: experts and off the shelf controller area networks. So these are some points of difference that I have either seen used in in techstars, cohorts, or my clients have used themselves
Susan Silver: some tools to help you identify your new point of difference, because it can be hard.
Susan Silver: Interview your customers. Now you're interviewing potential customers.
Susan Silver: but when you have customers and some of you may have paying customers, find out why they love you, find out, find out why they've repurchase from you, or why they chose you. In the first place.
Susan Silver: okay, learning those things can give you a lot of insight into why they love you. Because I'm all about with positioning
Susan Silver: really. What it boils down to is understanding why, you know, when you get a little farther down the line? Why, your customers love you?
Susan Silver: So that you can talk to other people like that about why they would love you to right now, you're kind of more hypothetical. Why, you think they're gonna love you? What's the problem you've identified? And and why is the why is the way you solve it? Great
Susan Silver: You can list all the features and benefits of your product, and see if anything kind of rises to the top
Susan Silver: you can think about what you're investing in as a company. I find that that's often a great flag
Susan Silver: for something that is unique to your company. So, for example.
Susan Silver: Allen Brothers steaks on the restaurant side, they do way more when it comes to food safety.
Susan Silver: then they're required to by law.
Susan Silver: And so when we did the positioning for the restaurant side of the business, that's something that we talked about in their positioning statement.
Susan Silver: Ironically.
Susan Silver: as consumers. When you go purchase food someplace you just assume it's safe.
Susan Silver: But for a restaurant tour they must make sure that the food that they're serving to their customers is safe. So we don't talk about it to consumers, but we do talk about it to people who are on the B 2 B side
Susan Silver: or think backwards. What can go horribly wrong if someone makes a bad category, purchase decision which can be lots of fun like what can go horribly wrong. And that can be assigned to you. What are you doing with your business to make sure that doesn't happen
Susan Silver: for Allen Brothers? It's that they deliver to your home the very best steaks you can get anywhere
Susan Silver: which seems like it could be.
Susan Silver: Yes, right kind of like mighty vine that they delivered to your home. The very best stakes you can get anywhere. Reasons to believe are the proof. Okay, there, what evidence do you have that? Your point of difference is true, it can be quantifiable. It can be proprietary process, it can be awards or credentials.
Susan Silver: Some of these things that you wish you could say you might not be able to say yet.
Susan Silver: but
Susan Silver: it could be that you realize there's something you wish you could say about why you're great, and you guys can start building and working towards that now.
Susan Silver: so that maybe in a few months or in a year, you can say that about your company and your or your product your service.
Susan Silver: Some examples of reasons to believe that my clients have used. One of them was able to say that they certified over 6,000 correctional healthcare professionals, including a former surgeon general. Remember, I said, I had a client where the unmet need was. They don't want to go to jail. This was part of that
Susan Silver: somebody else had said. They impact over 1,000,000,002 d. And 3D. Items. I know none of you are close to that yet.
Susan Silver: but you know just as kind of like helping you see what some of my clients have been able to ultimately say at a different point in their life cycle, you know. Nobody gets to a billion anything
Susan Silver: without being good at something.
Susan Silver: you know, my my cannabis seltzer, my Thc. Seltzer client. Every can contains 2 and a half Megs of Thc microdose. So your bus stays in your control.
Susan Silver: Provides instant feedback on any mobile device easy to use software proprietary process 4.9 star rating on Amazon. Only one in 40 teachers is qualified. These are all different reasons to believe.
Susan Silver: kind of the one thing you need to be careful of here is that you need to make sure that I'm sure that there are many reasons why your company is great, but once you pick a point of difference, the reasons to believe need to support it. So remember, mighty vine.
Susan Silver: Okay, mighty vine is the local greenhouse tomato grow that grows delicious tomatoes year round.
Susan Silver: There are 3 reasons to believe, support this
Susan Silver: so delicious the varietals they grow were selected for maximum flavor, not ship ability.
Susan Silver: local greenhouse. They have a state of the art greenhouse in Rochelle, Illinois, that ensures that tomatoes are in store within 2 days of being fully ripened on the vine and year round. Well known Chicago area chefs like Rick Bayless use our tomatoes year round, so you can see that, although mighty vine had a lot of great things about the the product.
Susan Silver: The the point of difference was supported by reasons to believe that specifically, specifically were focused on. Why, we said mighty vine was great.
Susan Silver: That can be hard.
Susan Silver: So for Allen Brothers, they say that they deliver to your home the very best steaks you can get anywhere. The reasons to believe are one. They're the leading purveyor of Usda Prime in the Us. They do buy more Usda graded prime than anybody in the country, and everybody in the meat industry would agree.
Susan Silver: 2. They're me to serve in the very best steak houses in America, like Morton's, and 3. Every single piece of meat is hand selected handcut and aged by their master butchers. So that's why Allen Brothers is able to say that they are delivering to people's homes the very best steak they can get anywhere.
Susan Silver: So this is how the Allen Brothers Positioning statement looks when it's filled in.
Susan Silver: and I like to make them pretty because people are paying me a lot of money. So I do that, too.
Susan Silver: So that's all I have for you guys today. It looks like we have 7 min left.
Susan Silver: If people would like to ask questions.
Susan Silver: I would be delighted to answer them.
Susan Silver: I know it's a lot right? I can, I'm sure Anna spent like you're getting ready for your your pitches next week, and it's a lot of stuff. But hopefully, this gives you a different way of looking at how you're talking your customers, and even how you're thinking about your business
Susan Silver: that can maybe help you
Susan Silver: make your messaging better and more
Susan Silver: more more able to connect with the people you're trying to connect with and not get the heisman.
Susan Silver: So any other questions you guys have been such a great audience. I appreciate how lively you've been. Yes, Alejandra.
Alejandra Guillen: Yes, so I I know you touched on this, Susan. But if you can remind me once you, we get this statement right?
Alejandra Guillen: how do we use it both to target, to message to consumers and to pitch like we don't use it as ease. Right? We use part of.
Susan Silver: You don't use it as is. And partly it's because it's just awkward, right? Like, like, I can kind of look at anybody's website or anybody's messaging, and kind of do forensics on it and figure it out. This is not secret
Susan Silver: like literally, this is, this is kind of the the message you're putting out to the world. So it is not secret. But the way that the positioning statement is written is awkward. It's basically just, you know, stringing the right things together. So no, you don't just want to dump that on somebody. But I will tell you actually, also, point of difference should be above the fold on your website.
Susan Silver: right? That's where that puppy lives. Your point of difference should be above the fold on your website. The reasons to believe are probably tabs.
Susan Silver: Okay, that's the way that would work. Alejandra, for you guys by doing kind of your business kind of
Susan Silver: to consumers. Your positioning statement. It's going to help you talk better when you do. When you think about how you're going to pitch to the investors because you're going to be able to talk about. Why you're great.
Susan Silver: what who it is that cares your target
Susan Silver: and the reasons to believe what you're saying.
Alejandra Guillen: Thank you. Susan.
Susan Silver: You're welcome. Other questions.
Kelvin Alaneme: Susan!
Susan Silver: Kevin.
Kelvin Alaneme: Yeah, thank you so much for that very insightful session. I think my question is,
Kelvin Alaneme: if we are doing content marketing. How do we? Let's say you're making a post, and how do we do? We ensure that every post you are making kind of incorporates this? Or do you just you know, how do you make it? Not monotonous, that you know, because definitely, it's not sell. So sell every time, especially.
Susan Silver: I think, Calvin, that's the most important thing. You know. There's there's a lot of art that goes into content and social.
Susan Silver: and it's not about selling right? It's about kind of
Susan Silver: being being interesting in an analogous way
Susan Silver: and sprinkling in the selling. But you need to kind of it's an opportunity to prove your credibility and your expertise through other ways. You know. One of my favorite examples is, there's a business here in Chicago.
Susan Silver: Oh, my God, artist frame service.
Susan Silver: you know. And one of the things they have on their their website is how to hang a picture.
Susan Silver: right? Which is something, people, Google a lot.
Susan Silver: So they're not telling you to buy their frames. But they're happy to tell you. I mean, they're doing that on their website. But in terms of social media, you know, a big content piece for them is
Susan Silver: how to think about hanging your pictures.
Kelvin Alaneme: Okay, make makes a lot of sense. Makes a lot of sense. Yeah.
Susan Silver: Because all of this is really about.
Susan Silver: You want to
Susan Silver: engage people and have them be interested enough to want to learn more. Talk to you. More. Go to your website, right? Like I think about, like every piece of marketing.
Susan Silver: content or tactic has a job to do.
Susan Silver: So like the job of your website is really to get someone to call you sign up for your newsletter or email you that's it.
Susan Silver: Or or if you're an e-commerce site to buy your product. And that's it.
Susan Silver: Okay, I don't care if they don't use you as a resource. I don't care if they don't come back weekly to kind of like, do whatever. Okay, I don't care if they never read a blog post, cause I really don't care. I want them to call you email, you buy off your site.
Susan Silver: give you their email address. That's it.
Susan Silver: So being really being really realistic about what is the job the marketing tactic has to do. And then what's the appropriate piece of this messaging to kind of use to kind of bring them in to engage them so that you can have a deeper conversation, you know, and that's
Susan Silver: that's all about how the funnel works, too. When you're kind of pulling people in. It's like, what's the top of the funnel message, and then once they're engaged more, you can kind of go deeper into what you offer, but you don't do that right away, because it's too much, and their brains don't want to hit like right like their brains don't want to hear it.
Kelvin Alaneme: Exactly so, a, essentially, it's about creating value and then using that value to draw them top of the funnel. You know. Like we, we, we provide you know, online group therapy, we have a Youtube channel where we put out meditation and all this stuff for free. So it's putting it out and then using it as a funnel for those who now want more. They can. You know, they're getting value. They can eventually buy down the line.
Susan Silver: Yup, exactly.
Kelvin Alaneme: Too much!
Susan Silver: My pleasure. Thank you guys so much. It has really been great to like. Really, if any of you have any questions that you're too shy to ask, although you're in tech stars, I doubt you're shy. But if you, if you wanna reach out to me about any questions you have offline.
Susan Silver: Chloe and Eliana have my information, and it's really been such a pleasure to talk to you. I hope this is useful.
Lilliana Robinson: Thank you, Susan. It was great to see you. Thank you so much.
Susan Silver: Great to see you too. Bye, everybody.
valeria brenner: Thank you so much.
Susan Silver: I mean.
Snow Sungwon Lee: Very much. Thank you.
Alejandra Guillen: So much. Jake
Alejandra Guillen: bye.
Susan Silver: Bye, bye.
Chloe Lannert: Alright! Bye, guys!